portfolio.md, before:

---
title: "Portfolio of Research Papers"
author: "2242090"
bibliography: references.bib
toc: true
toc-title: Table of Contents
toc-depth: 3
csl: harvard-imperial-college-london.csl
---

# 1 "My Data Just Goes Everywhere: User Mental Models of the Internet and Implications for Privacy and Security" – Kang 2015

## 1.1 Leader summary

Our group discussion focussed on the issue of who’s responsible for protecting online privacy, and this falls into the following categories: individuals, companies, or governments. This issue connects closely to the paper being analysed, by Kang et al., which found a surprising correlation that a user’s technical knowledge did not necessarily predict the actions undertaken to improve their online privacy. Our conversation then raised important talking points about how to make users empowered, whilst also keeping big tech institutions accountable in terms of their data processing.

A point then was raised – how much should individuals themselves have to burden to take steps in safeguarding their online privacy? Some members of the group argued that those who showed more technical prowess should take the time to proactively learn about threats and the relevant tools to protect themselves. Other members contested this, by saying that the average user without a technical background cannot grasp security concepts, let alone, have the necessary motivation to even learn about it. Such topics include subjects of encryption, network infrastructure or threat identification. Rather, some members concluded that companies themselves should implement robust privacy protections by default, rather than assuming that users, regardless of their technical knowledge, can properly manage their privacy within a complex digital environment.

Certain members within the group were also contented with this notion, however. Relying on companies’ privacy policies exclusively can pose its own set of issues. Concerns about how often terms and conditions are skipped and are unread by the typical user were voiced. Issues were found – relating to how the user does not change the default privacy settings and thus unintentionally opts into features such as telemetry data being directly sent to companies. Another pointed out that this is not only the user’s fault, rather, companies themselves should invest effort and time into developing systems that are usable and meet, if not exceed, the standard usability guidelines. So relying on companies is not a sustainable long-term solution and there is substantial evidence of it being insufficient already.

Our discussion came to the identification of balancing individual responsibility in combination with some sort of accountability for companies that are processing user data. Individuals can reasonably handle basic tools or take small steps for improving their online privacy; but only up to a certain extent. So to counteract this, companies must make their UI design as transparent as possible, especially when it comes to data flows and processing but not hide it behind convoluted legislation pages, such as terms and conditions. Several people also advocated government regulations to set baselines to relieve some of the burden from individuals so companies have no choice but to comply.

In conclusion, individuals should not have to master and go out of their way to learn about technical intricacies to protect their basic rights but should be aware to some basic degree of the state of their online privacy. Again, we can neither expect companies to regulate nor self-police themselves, given the constantly present business incentives and company growth opportunities. A key takeaway we all agreed upon is that a usable design, full transparency when data processing is involved, education, and stricter regulation laws are all required. Users can then build their foundations or use specific tools that are tailored to their mental models, instead of technical expertise. Our discussion revealed how online privacy falls under the responsibility of both the individual and the company but with a slight bias towards institutions. With both parties applying themselves to the conjoint goal of online privacy, there can be a mutual benefit.

# 2 "Finding the weakest links in the weakest link: How well do undergraduate students make cybersecurity judgement?" – Yan 2018

## 2.1 Member summary

Our group had a perceptive discussion, which involved two key questions – which groups should be surveyed for any future research on the "weakest link" phenomenon as explored within the paper, and how to ensure that participants fare between rational and intuitive thinking. The group came to suggestions of surveying other demographics, such as the elderly, and devising more testing strategies to prompt the desired thinking, namely time constraints. The discussion was then led into a debate about who is responsible for cybersecurity, between institutional or personal endeavors. We also agreed upon the fact that whilst education is important, it is down to companies to implement robust protection mechanisms rather than leave it to individual skills, since humans are the weakest link of any system. Essentially, a balance should be struck – between the usability of privacy tools and general accountability for companies. This means that average users will be relieved of most security concerns, whilst being flexible for more advanced users.

# 3 "Can Computers Become Conscious and Overcome Humans?" – Signorelli 2018

## 3.1 Member summary

# 4 Appendices

## 4.1 Group leader email

![](images/group-leader-email.png)

# 5 Bibliography

Commit message:

Finished first draft of third reading summary

portfolio.md, after:

---
title: "Portfolio of Research Papers"
author: "2242090"
bibliography: references.bib
toc: true
toc-title: Table of Contents
toc-depth: 3
csl: harvard-imperial-college-london.csl
---

# 1 "My Data Just Goes Everywhere: User Mental Models of the Internet and Implications for Privacy and Security" – Kang 2015

## 1.1 Leader summary

Our group discussion focussed on the issue of who’s responsible for protecting online privacy, and this falls into the following categories: individuals, companies, or governments. This issue connects closely to the paper being analysed, by Kang et al., which found a surprising correlation that a user’s technical knowledge did not necessarily predict the actions undertaken to improve their online privacy. Our conversation then raised important talking points about how to make users empowered, whilst also keeping big tech institutions accountable in terms of their data processing.

A point then was raised – how much should individuals themselves have to burden to take steps in safeguarding their online privacy? Some members of the group argued that those who showed more technical prowess should take the time to proactively learn about threats and the relevant tools to protect themselves. Other members contested this, by saying that the average user without a technical background cannot grasp security concepts, let alone, have the necessary motivation to even learn about it. Such topics include subjects of encryption, network infrastructure or threat identification. Rather, some members concluded that companies themselves should implement robust privacy protections by default, rather than assuming that users, regardless of their technical knowledge, can properly manage their privacy within a complex digital environment.

Certain members within the group were also contented with this notion, however. Relying on companies’ privacy policies exclusively can pose its own set of issues. Concerns about how often terms and conditions are skipped and are unread by the typical user were voiced. Issues were found – relating to how the user does not change the default privacy settings and thus unintentionally opts into features such as telemetry data being directly sent to companies. Another pointed out that this is not only the user’s fault, rather, companies themselves should invest effort and time into developing systems that are usable and meet, if not exceed, the standard usability guidelines. So relying on companies is not a sustainable long-term solution and there is substantial evidence of it being insufficient already.

Our discussion came to the identification of balancing individual responsibility in combination with some sort of accountability for companies that are processing user data. Individuals can reasonably handle basic tools or take small steps for improving their online privacy; but only up to a certain extent. So to counteract this, companies must make their UI design as transparent as possible, especially when it comes to data flows and processing but not hide it behind convoluted legislation pages, such as terms and conditions. Several people also advocated government regulations to set baselines to relieve some of the burden from individuals so companies have no choice but to comply.

In conclusion, individuals should not have to master and go out of their way to learn about technical intricacies to protect their basic rights but should be aware to some basic degree of the state of their online privacy. Again, we can neither expect companies to regulate nor self-police themselves, given the constantly present business incentives and company growth opportunities. A key takeaway we all agreed upon is that a usable design, full transparency when data processing is involved, education, and stricter regulation laws are all required. Users can then build their foundations or use specific tools that are tailored to their mental models, instead of technical expertise. Our discussion revealed how online privacy falls under the responsibility of both the individual and the company but with a slight bias towards institutions. With both parties applying themselves to the conjoint goal of online privacy, there can be a mutual benefit.

# 2 "Finding the weakest links in the weakest link: How well do undergraduate students make cybersecurity judgement?" – Yan 2018

## 2.1 Member summary

Our group had a perceptive discussion, which involved two key questions – which groups should be surveyed for any future research on the "weakest link" phenomenon as explored within the paper, and how to ensure that participants fare between rational and intuitive thinking. The group came to suggestions of surveying other demographics, such as the elderly, and devising more testing strategies to prompt the desired thinking, namely time constraints. The discussion was then led into a debate about who is responsible for cybersecurity, between institutional or personal endeavors. We also agreed upon the fact that whilst education is important, it is down to companies to implement robust protection mechanisms rather than leave it to individual skills, since humans are the weakest link of any system. Essentially, a balance should be struck – between the usability of privacy tools and general accountability for companies. This means that average users will be relieved of most security concerns, whilst being flexible for more advanced users.

# 3 "Can Computers Become Conscious and Overcome Humans?" – Signorelli 2018

## 3.1 Member summary

Our group argued whether machines surpassing clear certain criteria of intelligence makes them be defined as a computer or not – in the case that a machine does fully develop consciousness and realization, it could be a whole new species itself. Some members of the group proposed the idea that impressive cognitive abilities need to be backed by a real consciousness, which some computer systems lack. Replicating humanity with emotional intelligence within machines was also discussed, but this poses barriers, as some suggested that a computer system cannot fully capture and replicate qualities that are naturally intrinsic to humans. There was also an ethical discussion to be had, where machines that do have an active consciousness cannot be as easily controllable. The discussion also delved into whether AI required more processing power to reach higher levels of intelligence but concluded that it would not have any effect on a machine's thought process. Overall, we all agreed that further research needs to be conducted on whether machines are even cable adopting such qualities as emotions whilst still retaining the advantages that make it a machine in the first place.

# 4 Appendices

## 4.1 Group leader email

![](images/group-leader-email.png)

# 5 Bibliography
